.TH sbocutleaves 1 "Boomtime, Discord 54, 3192 YOLD" "sbotools 4.1.4" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbocutleaves
- list or remove SBo leaf packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sbocutleaves [-h|-v]
.P
sbocutleaves [-l] [--no-display]
.P
sbocutleaves [--color|--nocolor] [--wrap|--nowrap] ...
.P
sbocutleaves [--raw]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
sbocutleaves
finds leaf packages (those which no other packages require) installed from
.I
slackbuilds.org\fR\
, offers to remove or keep them. Once any removals have been done, it prompts
the user to repeat this process until no leaf packages are marked for deletion.
Blacklisted scripts and optional dependency requests are respected; see
.B
sbohints(1)
or
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
for details.
.P
Use the
.B
--list
or
.B
--raw
flags to generate a list of leaf packages without taking any other action.
.P
Root privileges are required to run
.B
sbocutleaves
unless passing
.B
--list
or
.B
--raw\fR\
\&. If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, the script exits with a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-l|--list
.RS
Print a newline-delineated list of leaf packages with descriptions
and take no other action. The
.B
--list
flag can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
--no-descriptions
.RS
Do not show descriptions in list or interactive output. This flag
is unnecessary when calling
.B
sbocutleaves
with
.B
--raw\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--raw
.RS
Print a space-delineated list of leaf packages with no descriptions or
other formatting. The
.B
--raw
flag can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.P
.B
--wrap
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
word wrapping (default).
.RE
.P
.B
--nowrap
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
word wrapping.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sbocutleaves
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations completed successfully.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occurred, such as passing incorrect options to
.B
sbocutleaves\fR\
\&.
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
13: attempted to calculate a circular dependency.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboconfig(1), sbocutleaves(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sbotool(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5), removepkg(8)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <jacob.pipkin@icloud.com>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
