.TH sboconfig 1 "Setting Orange, The Aftermath 8, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 4.0.1" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sboconfig
- set
.B
sbotools
configuration options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sboconfig [-h|-v]
.P
sboconfig [-l|-n]
.P
sboconfig [--reset]
.P
sboconfig [-CKOPRSXcbdegw TRUE|FALSE] [-j #|FALSE] [-DLpo /path|FALSE] \\
          [-s /path|/usr/sbo] [-B branch_name|FALSE] [-V #.#|FALSE] \\
          [-r url|FALSE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sboconfig
is a front-end for managing
.B
sbotools
configuration options. Using
.B
sboconfig
without any flags enters the
.B
Settings
menu within
.B
sbotool\fR\
\&, provided that
.B
dialog(1)
is installed. If running as root, settings changes
can be done from here.
.P
The
.B
sbotools.conf(5)
file can also be manually edited; any fields not
relevant to
.B
sbotools
configuration are ignored.
To use a configuration directory other than
.I
/etc/sbotools\fR\
\&, export an environment variable
.B
SBOTOOLS_CONF_DIR
with an absolute path.
.P
.I
/root\fR\
\&,
.I
/home\fR\
\&,
.I
/
and possible top-level directories under
.I
/home
are not permitted as directory settings.
.P
Non-root users can only call
.B
sboconfig
with the
.B
--list\fR\
\&,
.B
--non-default\fR\
\&,
.B
--help
and
.B
--version
flags.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-l|--list
.RS
List the current configuration options, including
unmodified defaults.
.B
--list
also shows the
.B
sboconfig
flag used to set each option for reference. The
.B
--list
flag can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
-n|--non-default
.RS
List current non-default configuration options.
.B
--non-default
also shows the
.B
sboconfig
flag used to set each option for reference. The
.B
--non-default
flag can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
--reset
.RS
Restore the default configuration to
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-B|--branch (FALSE|branch_name)
.RS
.B
GIT_BRANCH\fR\
\&: If
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&, use the default git branch for the Slackware
version, if any. If
.B branch_name\fR\
\&, attempt to change
branches to
.B
branch_name
when using
.B
sbocheck(1)
with an upstream git repository.
.RE
.P
.B
-b|--build-ignore (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
BUILD_IGNORE\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not perform upgrades unless the
version number differs. By default, upgrades
also occur when the build number differs.
.RE
.P
.B
-C|--classic (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
CLASSIC\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, automatically enable
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT
and
.B
BUILD_IGNORE\fR\
\&,
and disable
.B
COLOR
(overriding the contents of
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
). Build increment and out-of-tree SlackBuild
checks by
.B
sbocheck(1)
are disabled, and previously-used build options are not displayed.
This provides a more traditional
.B
sbotools
look and feel for those who want it.
.RE
.P
.B
-c|--noclean (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
NOCLEAN\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not clean working directories after building.
These are the build and
.I
package-(sbo)
directories under
.I
/tmp/SBo
(or
.I
$TMP\fR\
\&).
.RE
.P
.B
-D|--dialogrc (FALSE|/path)
.RS
DIALOGRC\fR\
\&: If set to an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, use that file as
.I
dialogrc
when running
.B
sbotool(1)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-d|--distclean (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
DISTCLEAN\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, remove the package and source archives after building. Source
archives are otherwise retained in md5sum-designated directories under
.I
/usr/sbo/distfiles
(with default
.B
SBO_HOME\fR\
\&). If
.B
PKG_DIR
is set, package archives are saved there regardless of
.B
DISTCLEAN\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-e|--etc-profile (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
ETC_PROFILE\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, source any executable scripts in
.I
/etc/profile.d
named
.I
*.sh
before running each SlackBuild in the build queue.
.RE
.P
.B
-g|--gpg-verify (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
GPG_VERIFY\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, use
.B
gpg(1)
to verify the contents of the local repository (and, if applicable,
.I
/etc/sbotools/obsolete\fR\
) when running
.B
sbocheck(1)\fR\
\&,
.B
sboinstall(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)\fR\
\&. Missing public keys are detected, and a download from
.UR keyserver.ubuntu.com
.UE
on port 80 is offered if available.
.RE
.P
.B
-j|--jobs (FALSE|#)
.RS
.B
JOBS\fR\
\&: If
.B
numerical\fR\
\&, pass to the
.B
-j
argument when a SlackBuild invoking
.B
make
is run.
.RE
.P
.B
-K|--color (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
COLOR\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, enable
.B
sbotools
color output. To customize color output, edit the
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.colors
file directly. See
.B
sbotools.colors(5)
for details.
.RE
.P
.B
-L|--log-dir (FALSE|/path)
.RS
.B
LOG_DIR\fR\
\&: If set to an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, save build logs here. Logs are saved with the name of the script
and a timestamp. Please note that because
.B
STDERR
must be redirected for a complete log, colors and formatting may differ
when running some SlackBuilds unless
.B
LOG_DIR
is
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-O|--obsolete-check (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
OBSOLETE_CHECK\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, download updated copies of the obsolete script list and the perl
version history file to
.I
/etc/sbotools/obsolete
and
.I
/etc/sbotools/perl_vers\fR\
\&, respectively, from the
.B
sbotools
home page at
.UR https://pghvlaans.github.io/sbotools
.UE
when running
.B
sbocheck(1)
in Slackware -current.
.RE
.P
.B
-P|--cpan-ignore (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
CPAN_IGNORE\fR\
\&: If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, install scripts even if they are already installed from the CPAN.
.RE
.P
.B
-p|--pkg-dir (FALSE|/path)
.RS
.B
PKG_DIR\fR\
\&: If set to a
.B
path\fR\
\&, packages are stored there after installation. This
overrides the
.B
DISTCLEAN
setting for saved packages.
.RE
.P
.B
-s|--sbo-home (/usr/sbo|/path)
.RS
.B
SBO_HOME\fR\
\&: If set to a
.B
path\fR\
\&, this is where the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
tree is stored. The default setting is
.I
/usr/sbo\fR\
\&. The tree must be re-downloaded if the
.B
SBO_HOME
setting changes.
.RE
.P
.B
-o|--local-overrides (FALSE|/path)
.RS
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES\fR\
\&: If set to a
.B
path\fR\
\&, any directory name in the top level under that path matching a
SlackBuild name is used in preference to the
in-tree version. This works even if the SlackBuild
is out-of-tree. Scripts installing packages not marked
with the
.I
_SBo
tag are neither upgradeable with
.B
sboupgrade(1)
nor removable with
.B
sboremove(1)\fR\
\&.
.I
slack-desc\fR\
\&, an
.I
info\fR\
 file and a SlackBuild must all be present.
.RE
.P
.B
-V|--slackware-version (FALSE|#.#)
.RS
.B
SLACKWARE_VERSION\fR\
\&: If set to a
.B
version number\fR\
\&, use the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
repository for that version of Slackware rather than
the one specified in
.I
/etc/slackware-version\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-r|--repo (FALSE|url)
.RS
.B
REPO\fR\
\&: If set to a git or rsync
.B
URL\fR\
\&, use that repository instead of the
.B
sbotools
default for your
.B
SLACKWARE_VERSION\fR\
\&. The default repositories are under
.UR rsync://slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds
.UE
if
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, and
.UR https://gitlab.com/SlackBuilds.org
.UE
otherwise. The repository must be laid out in the same
manner as one found at
.UR https://git.slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds
.UE
such that SlackBuild directories are under the
category directories.
.RE
.P
.B
-R|--rsync (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT\fR\
\&: If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, use rsync default mirrors except for Slackware -current.
.RE
.P
.B
-S|--strict-upgrades (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
STRICT_UPGRADES\fR\
\&: If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, upgrades are only attempted if the incoming
version or build number is greater. This has no
effect on scripts in the local overrides directory.
.RE
.P
.B
-w|--nowrap (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
NOWRAP\fR\
\&: If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not wrap
.B
sbotools
output.
.RE
.P
.B
-X|--so-check (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
SO_CHECK\fR\
\&: If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, check for missing first-order shared object (solib) dependencies
among
.I
_SBo
packages when running
.B
sbocheck(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)\fR\
\&. Additionally,
.B
sbocheck(1)
searches for incompatible
.B
perl\fR\
\&,
.B
python
and
.B
ruby
.I
_SBo
packages.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.SH SBOTEST
.B
sboconfig
is called when running
.B
sbotest config\fR\
\&; the following default values change in this situation:
.P
.B
-A|--sbo-archive
.RS
Defaults to
.I
/usr/sbotest/archive\fR\
\&. This setting is specific to
.B
sbotest\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-e|--etc-profile
.RS
Defaults to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-L|--log-dir
.RS
Defaults to
.I
/usr/sbotest/logs\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-P|--cpan-ignore
.RS
Defaults to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-p|--pkg-dir
.RS
Defaults to
.I
/usr/sbotest/tests\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-s|--sbo-home
.RS
Defaults to
.I
/usr/sbotest\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
Running
.B
sbotest config
without options is ineffective.
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sboconfig
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations were successful.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occurred (e.g. passing invalid option specifications)
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
6:  a required file handle could not be obtained.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sbotool(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotool(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5), dialog(1), gpg(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
