.TH sbocheck 1 "Setting Orange, Confusion 39, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.7" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbocheck
- update a local
.B
SlackBuilds.org
tree and check for updates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sbocheck [-h|-v]
.P
sbocheck [-OXgn]
.P
sbocheck [-c] package [package]
.P
sbocheck [--color|--nocolor] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sbocheck
updates or fetches a copy of the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
tree, checks for available upgrades, and reports what it finds.
If
.B
OBSOLETE_CHECK
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, an updated copy of the script list at
.B
/etc/sbotools/obsolete
is downloaded from
.UR https://pghvlaans.github.io/sbotools
.UE
when running Slackware -current (see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
).

SlackBuilds with differing build numbers are reported separately,
as are any SlackBuilds marked
.I
_SBo
that are not found in the
repository or local overrides (see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
). Except in
.B
CLASSIC
mode, scripts in the report that would not be upgraded by
.B
sboupgrade(1)
are marked with
.B
=
(equals sign).
.P
The three output categories are logged separately to
.I
/var/log/sbocheck.log\fR\
\&,
.I
/var/log/sbocheck-bumps.log
and
.I
/var/log/sbocheck-out-of-tree.log\fR\
\&. The out-of-tree and build number increment checks are disabled
when
.B
CLASSIC
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&; if
.B
STRICT_UPGRADES
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, apparent downgrades are reported with \(lqdiffers\(rq, but
are not acted on by
.B
sboupgrade(1)
(see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
).
.P
Upgrades to Slackware and third-party packages occasionally cause breakage due to
.B
*.so
version differences. To check for missing first-order shared object (solib) dependencies
among all installed in-tree
.I
_SBo
packages, use the
.B
--so-check
option. Each affected package is logged to
.I
/var/log/sbocheck-solibs.log
with a list of missing shared objects. This can be done automatically on every
.B
sbocheck
run
by setting
.B
SO_CHECK
to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&. Use the
.B
--check-package
option to check only a list of packages. Please note that scripts repackaging from binary
packages occasionally trigger false positives. Such packages generally do not require rebuilds.
.P
To check for updated SlackBuilds without updating the SlackBuilds
tree, pass
the
.B
--nopull
option.
.B
sbocheck
performs
.B
gpg(1)
verification upon pulling the tree if
.B
GPG_VERIFY
is
.B
TRUE
(see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
). The 
.B
--gpg-verify
option has the same effect. Passing both
.B
--gpg-verify
and
.B
--nopull
verifies the repo in-place without fetching.
Only rsync repositories can be verified on Slackware 14.0 and Slackware 14.1.
.P
Please note that
.B
sbosnap\fR\
\&, which was removed as an independent script in
.B
sbotools-3.3\fR\
\&, is a compatibility symlink to
.B
sbocheck\fR\
\&.
.P
Non-root users can only call
.B
sbocheck
with the
.B
--nopull\fR\
\&,
.B
--so-check\fR\
\&,
.B
--help
and
.B
--version
flags.
.B
sbocheck
issues a warning if the directory specified with
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES
does not exist (see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
). If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, the script exits with a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-c|--check-package
.RS
Check one or more package names for missing shared objects; the packages need not be
tagged with
.I
_SBo\fR\
\&. Incompatible with
.B
--so-check\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-g|--gpg-verify
.RS
Use
.B
gpg(1)
to verify the fetched repository, even if
.B
GPG_VERIFY
is
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&. When called with
.B
--nopull\fR\
\&, verify the repo without fetching.
Only rsync repositories can be verified on Slackware 14.0 and Slackware 14.1.
.RE
.P
.B
-O|--obsolete-check
.RS
If running Slackware -current, download a copy of the obsolete script list
from
.UR https://pghvlaans.github.io/sbotools
.UE
and verify with gpg(1) if
.B
GPG_VERIFY
is
.B
TRUE
or
.B
--gpg-verify
is passed.
Incompatible with
.B
--nopull\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-n|--nopull
.RS
Check for updated SlackBuilds without updating the SlackBuilds
tree. The
.B
--nopull
flag can be used without root privileges, but no log is kept.
.RE
.P
.B
-X|--so-check
.RS
Check all installed
.I
_SBo
packages for missing shared object dependencies; no other operations are
performed. To do this automatically every time
.B
sbocheck
is run, set
.B
SO_CHECK
to
.B
TRUE
(see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&). Incompatible with
.B
--check-package\fR\
\&.
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sbocheck
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations were successful.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occurred.
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
5:  failed to download the tree.
.RE
.RS
6:  failed to open a required file handle.
.RE
.RS
12: interrupt signal received.
.RE
.RS
15: GPG verification failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5), gpg(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
