.TH sbofind 1 "Setting Orange, Confusion 39, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.7" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbofind
- search the local copy of the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
tree for a given name or names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sbofind [-h|-v]
.P
sbofind [-AEFRTeiqrt] search_term (search_term)
.P
sbofind [--color|--nocolor] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sbofind
searches the names of all available SlackBuilds for one or more
search terms. It reports back any SlackBuilds found along
with path and version information. This is equivalent to
running
.RS

cd /usr/ports; make search name=$search_term display=name,path


.RE
on a FreeBSD system. If the repository includes a
.I
TAGS.txt
file, these tags are searched to generate additional results.
.P
Non-root users can call
.B
sbofind
with any flags.
.B
sbofind
issues a warning if the directory specified with
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES
does not exist (see
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
). If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, the script exits with a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-A|--all-reverse
.RS
Show all reverse dependencies in the repository for
each SlackBuild found.
.RE
.P
.B
-E|--exact-case
.RS
Exact matching only (case-sensitive).
.RE
.P
.B
-e|--exact
.RS
Exact matching only (case-insensitive).
.RE
.P
.B
-F|--first-reverse
.RS
Show all first-level reverse dependencies in the
repository for each SlackBuild found.
.RE
.P
.B
-t|--no-tags
.RS
Exclude tags from the search.
.RE
.P
.B
-i|--info
.RS
Show the contents of the
.I
info
file for each SlackBuild found.
.RE
.P
.B
-q|--queue
.RS
Show the build queue for each SlackBuild found given the contents
of
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.hints\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-R|--reverse
.RS
Show any reverse dependencies installed on the system.
Please note that optional dependencies must be specified in
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
to be included. Packages with tags other than
.I
_SBo
are not included.
.RE
.P
.B
-r|--readme
.RS
Show the contents of the
.I
README
file for each SlackBuild found.
.RE
.P
.B
-T|--top-reverse
.RS
Show the top-level reverse dependencies, installed or not,
for one or more scripts.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.SH SBOTEST
.B
sbofind
is called when running
.B
sbotest find\fR\
\&; flags are unchanged. Scripts with an up-to-date package in the
archive are indicated.
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sbofind
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations were succesful.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occured (e.g., incorrect options were passed to
.B
sbofind
).
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
6:  a required handle could not be obtained.
.RE
.RS
13: circular dependencies detected.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
