.TH sbohints 1 "Setting Orange, The Aftermath 33, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 4.1.2" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbohints
- interact with sbotools.hints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sbohints [-h|-v]
.P
sbohints [-l|--reset]
.P
sbohints [-c] [-Obor] sbo_name (sbo_name)
.P
sbohints [-q] sbo_name (sbo_name)
.P
sbohints [--color|--nocolor] [--wrap|--nowrap] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sbohints
queries and edits script-specific hints in
.B
sbotools.hints(5)\fR\
\&. Three
kinds of hints are recognized:
.RS

\[bu] blacklist

\[bu] optional dependencies

\[bu] automatic reverse dependency rebuild

.RE
The modification flags are
.B
--blacklist\fR\
\&,
.B
--optional\fR\
\&,
.B
--replace-optional
and
.B
--reverse\fR\
\&. These can be used in conjunction with
.B
--clear\fR\
\&, but not with each other.
.P
Please note that all hints apply equally to the
.I
compat32
version of the target script or scripts; specific requests for
.I
compat32
scripts are unsupported.
.P
Non-root users can only call
.B
sbohints
with the
.B
--list\fR\
\&,
.B
--query\fR\
\&,
.B
--help
and
.B
--version
flags. If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, the script exits with a diagnostic message.
To use a configuration directory other than
.I
/etc/sbotools\fR\
\&, export an environment variable
.B
SBOTOOLS_CONF_DIR
with an absolute path.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-b|--blacklist
.RS
Modify the blacklist by adding (or, with
.B
--clear\fR\
\&, clearing) one or more scripts.
.RE
.P
.B
-o|--optional
.RS
Add (or clear with
.B
--clear\fR\
\&) optional dependency requests for one or more
scripts. The current optional dependencies are displayed
together with a prompt for adding or clearing.
.RE
.P
.B
-O|--replace-optional
.RS
Replace all existing optional dependency requests for
one or more scripts. The current optional dependencies
are displayed together with a prompt for the new request
list. If used with
.B
--clear\fR\
\&, a confirmation prompt for clearing the optional
dependencies appears.
.RE
.P
.B
-r|--reverse
.RS
Add (or, with
.B
--clear\fR\
\&, clear) automatic reverse dependency rebuild requests
for one or more scripts. Please note that building against
some packages, such as
.B
google-go-lang\fR\
\&, fails unless a version-specific profile script has been
sourced. Requesting reverse dependency rebuilds for such
packages is not advised unless the
.B
ETC_PROFILE
setting is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)
for details.
.RE
.P
.B
-c|--clear
.RS
This flag is used together with one (and only one) of
.B
--blacklist\fR\
\&,
.B
--optional\fR\
\&,
.B
--replace-optional
or
.B
--reverse\fR\
\&. For
.B
--blacklist\fR\
\&,
.B
--optional
and
.B
--reverse\fR\
\&, clear entries instead of adding them. For
.B
--replace-optional\fR\
\&, clear all existing optional dependency requests.
.RE
.P
.B
-l|--list
.RS
List all active hints. If a blacklisted script has optional
dependency requests or is requested as an optional depenedency,
the user is notified. The
.B
--list
flag can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
-q|--query
.RS
Return the hint status for one or more scripts. There is no
output unless the queried script is involved with one or more
hints. The
.B
--query
flag can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
--reset
.RS
Clear all hints upon confirmation.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.P
.B
--wrap
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
word wrapping (default).
.RE
.P
.B
--nowrap
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
word wrapping.
.RE
.SH SBOTEST
.B
sbohints
is called when running
.B
sbotest hints\fR\
\&; flags are unchanged.
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sbohints
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations were successful.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occurred.
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
6:  a required file handle could not be obtained.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sbotool(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
