.TH sboinstall 1 "Setting Orange, Bureaucracy 21, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.8.1" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sboinstall
- install SlackBuilds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sboinstall [-h|-v]
.P
sboinstall [-dce TRUE|FALSE] [-j #|FALSE] [-Lk /path|FALSE] \\
           [-DRiopr] [--batch|--dry-run] [--create-template FILE] \\
           sbo_name (sbo_name)
.P
sboinstall [-dce TRUE|FALSE] [-j #|FALSE] [-Lk /path|FALSE] \\
           [-Di] --use-template FILE
.P
sboinstall [-dce TRUE|FALSE] [-j #|FALSE] [-Lk /path|FALSE] \\
           [-Dioqr] [--create-template FILE] --mass-rebuild
.P
sboinstall [-dce TRUE|FALSE] [-j #|FALSE] [-Lk /path|FALSE] \\
           [-Dioqr] [--create-template FILE] --series-rebuild SERIES
.P
sboinstall [--color|--nocolor] [--wrap|--nowrap] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sboinstall
is used to install SlackBuilds. If the
.B
--nointeractive
flag is not present,
.B
sboinstall
pulls the list of requirements from the
.I
info
file for any specified SlackBuild. This is a recursive
operation over all dependencies.
.B
sboinstall
offers to install any non-installed dependencies in
the build queue, taking the hints in
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
into account. In case of
.B
--reinstall\fR\
\&, scripts with automatic reverse dependency rebuilds have
their reverse dependencies rebuilt as well. The script exits
with an error message if circular dependencies are detected.
.P
.I
README
files are parsed for
.B
groupadd
and
.B
useradd
commands, and
.B
sboinstall
offers to run them prior to building if any of the required users
or groups do not exist. If the
.I
README
is judged to document options in
.I
KEY=VALUE
form, a prompt for setting options appears. Any
build options, whether passed interactively or in a
template, are saved to
.I
/var/log/sbotools
when the SlackBuild runs.
.P
.I
compat32
packages share saved build options with the corresponding
base script.  Please note that saved build options are not
displayed when
.B
CLASSIC
is set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. When running with
.B
--nointeractive
or
.B
--batch\fR\
\&, saved build options are used automatically unless
.B
--norecall
or
.B
--use-template
are passed as well.
.P
.B
sboinstall
attempts to download the sources from the
.I
DOWNLOAD
or
.I
DOWNLOAD_x86_64
variables in the
.I
info
file. If
either the download or the md5sum check fails, a new
download is attempted from
.UR ftp://slackware.uk/sbosrcarch/
.UE
as a fallback measure.
.P
.B
sboinstall
verifies the local repository with
.B
gpg
if
.B
GPG_VERIFY
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
Only rsync repositories can be verified on Slackware 14.0 and Slackware 14.1.
.P
Root privileges are required to run
.B
sboinstall
unless passing
.B
--dry-run\fR\
\&. If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, or if invalid options are specified, the script
exits with a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-c|--noclean (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not clean working directories after building.
These are the build and
.I
package-(sbo)
directories under
.I
/tmp/SBo
(or
.I
$TMP\fR\
). Cleaning these directories can be set as default
via the
.B
sboconfig(1)
command. See also
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-D|--dry-run
.RS
Non-interactively print the prospective build queue and exit.
.B
--dry-run
reports SlackBuilds in the queue with
.I
%README%
in
.I
REQUIRES\fR\
\&, saved build options to be used and
.B
useradd
or
.B
groupadd
commands to be run. This makes
.B
--batch
considerably safer for everyday use.
.B
--dry-run
can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
-d|--distclean (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, remove the source archives after building. They
are retained in md5sum-designated directories under
.I
SBO_HOME/distfiles
by default. The package archive (in
.I
/tmp
by default) is also removed. This option can be set
as default via the
.B
sboconfig(1)
command. See also
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-e|--etc-profile
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, source any executable scripts in
.I
/etc/profile.d
named
.I
*.sh
before running each SlackBuild in the build queue.
This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-i|--noinstall
.RS
Do not install the package at the end of the build process.
It is left in
.I
/tmp
(or
.I
$OUTPUT\fR\
) if
.B
DISTCLEAN
is
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&. Packages are retained in
.B
PKG_DIR
if so defined regardless of
.B
DISTCLEAN\fR\
\&. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
and
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-j|--jobs (FALSE|#)
.RS
If
.B
numerical\fR\
\&, pass to the
.B
-j
argument when a SlackBuild invoking
.B
make
is run.
.RE
.P
.B
-k|--pkg-dir (FALSE|/path)
.RS
If an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, save built packages here, overriding the value of the
.B
PKG_DIR
setting.
.RE
.P
.B
-L|--log-dir (FALSE|/path)
.RS
If an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, save build logs here, overriding the value of the
.B
LOG_DIR
setting. Logs are saved with the name of the script
and a timestamp.
.RE
.P
.B
-o|--norecall
.RS
Do not reuse saved build options if running with
.B
--nointeractive\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-p|--compat32
.RS
Create
.I
compat32
packages for each item in the queue on multilib x86_64 systems.
Any requested 64-bit only scripts are not queued, and 32-bit
only scripts are built as-is. To request both
.I
compat32
and normal scripts, run
.B
sboinstall
without
.B
--compat32
and append
.I
-compat32
to the script name, e.g.
.I
libmodplug-compat32\fR\
\&.
.P
This requires the
.B
compat32-tools
package by Eric Hameleers. Please note that this operation
is not necessarily foolproof, and is unsupported by anyone
in principle.
.B
--compat32
can be combined with
.B
--noinstall
and
.B
--distclean FALSE
so that the contents of the package can be inspected prior
to installation. GitHub Issues are welcome in case of unexpected failure.

.B
sboinstall
will not attempt
.I
compat32
builds for Perl-based or
.I
noarch
scripts. Incompatible with
.B
--mass-rebuild,
.B
--series-rebuild
and
.B
--use-template\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-q|--reverse-rebuild
.RS
Rebuild the reverse dependencies for the requested SlackBuilds.
The build queue also includes any missing dependencies for
those scripts. With
.B
--compat32\fR\
\&, rebuild only installed
.I
compat32
reverse dependencies.

Incompatible with
.B
--norequirements\fR\
\&,
.B
--use-template
and
.B
--mass-rebuild\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-r|--nointeractive
.RS
Bypass all user prompts for the requested
SlackBuilds. Dependency resolution is bypassed
as well except for
.B
--mass-rebuild\fR\
\&,
.B
--series-rebuild\fR\
\&,
.B
--reverse-rebuild
and (extraneously)
.B
--batch\fR\
\&. Saved build options will be reused automatically unless
.B
--norecall
or
.B
--use-template
are passed as well. Unless it is obvious that new build options and
dependency resolution are not required, consider using a template instead.

If an operation with
.B
--nointeractive
would install an in-tree
.I
_SBo
package in place of a package without this tag, the build is automatically
skipped.

Overriden by
.B
--batch\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-R|--norequirements
.RS
Bypass dependency resolution, but still show
.I
README
and the
user prompts before proceeding with the build.

Incompatible with
.B
--batch\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--reinstall
.RS
Offer to reinstall all packages in the build queue. If any of the packages
have automatic reverse dependency rebuild requests, rebuild their reverese
dependency queues as well. See
.B
sbohints(1)
or
.B
sbotools.hints(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--create-template (FILE)
.RS
Create a template for one or more SlackBuilds including any
pre-build commands and build options and save to the specified
.B
FILE\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--use-template (FILE)
.RS
Build using the template saved to
.B
FILE.
This disables all user prompts.

Incompatible with
.B
--compat32\fR\
\&,
.B
--series-rebuild\fR\
\&,
.B
--mass-rebuild
and
.B
--reverse-rebuild\fR\
\&. To make
.I
compat32
packages from a template, consider using
.B
--create-template
with
.B
--compat32
first.
.RE
.P
.B
--mass-rebuild
.RS
Generate build queues, rebuild and reinstall all in-tree
.I
_SBo
SlackBuilds. This is generally only useful when the Slackware
version has been upgraded or (occasionally) on -current. New
SlackBuilds may be installed when dependencies have been added.

In combination with
.B
--nointeractive
and
.B
--batch\fR\
\&, saved build options are reused automatically.

Incompatible with
.B
--series-rebuild\fR\
\&,
.B
--reverse-rebuild\fR\
\&,
.B
--compat32\fR\
\&,
.B
--use-template
and
.B
--norequirements\fR\
\&.

If the mass rebuild process is interrupted after downloading has
been completed, whether by signal or by build failure, a template named
.I
resume.temp
is saved to
.B
SBO_HOME\fR\
\&. If this file is present, the mass rebuild restarts from
the script after the script that failed when
.B
--mass-rebuild
is used again.
.RE
.P
.B
--series-rebuild (SERIES)
.RS
Generate build queues, rebuild and reinstall all in-tree
.I
_SBo
SlackBuilds from the
.B
SERIES
series. In combination with
.B
--reverse-rebuild\fR\
\&, rebuild and reinstall reverse dependencies of these scripts
as well. This is most potentially useful on Slackware -current for
the
.B
python\fR\
\&,
.B
perl\fR\
\&,
.B
ruby
and
.B
haskell
series.

In combination with
.B
--nointeractive
and
.B
--batch\fR\
\&,
saved build options are reused automatically.
.P
Incompatible with
.B
--compat32\fR\
\&,
.B
--use-template\fR\
\&,
.B
--mass-rebuild
and
.B
--norequirements\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--batch
.RS
Bypass all user prompts for the requested SlackBuilds, but perform dependency
resolution, even if none of
.B
--mass-rebuild\fR\
\&,
.B
--series-rebuild
or
.B
--reverse-rebuild
are passed. Any saved build options are used again unless
.B
--norecall
is passed as well. If a script calls for
.B
useradd
or
.B
groupadd\fR\
\&,
.B
sboinstall
exits with an informative message if any specified user and group does not
exist.

This flag is not to be taken lightly, as it can cause new dependencies
to be installed without prompting. Usage in a production environment
without a well-maintained
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
file or with unfamiliar scripts is not advised. Consider running
.B
sboinstall
with
.B
--dry-run
first, which prints the
.B
--batch
build queue and exits, to verify the upcoming operation.

Incompatible with
.B
--norequirements
and overrides
.B
--nointeractive\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.P
.B
--wrap
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
word wrapping (default).
.RE
.P
.B
--nowrap
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
word wrapping.
.RE
.SH VARIABLES
.P
Beyond the options contained in
.I
README
files, certain variables are relevant to nearly all SlackBuilds,
and can be used when running
.B
sboinstall\fR\
\&.
.P
.B
ARCH
.RS
.B
ARCH
passes a CPU architecture to the build process, and is mostly used
to build
.B
i?86
packages on
.B
x86_64
machines and
.I
compat32
packages.
.B
sboinstall
does not require
.B
ARCH
to build
.I
compat32
packages, instead using
.B
setarch(1)\fR\
\&. This process is not necessarily bug-free;
please do not hesitate to report
.I
compat32
issues.
.RE
.P
.B
BUILD
.RS
.B
BUILD
sets the build number. Although it can be supplied at the command line
without compromising the build, please note that unless
.B
CLASSIC
or
.B
BUILD_IGNORE
are set,
.B
sbocheck(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)
will report the installed package as upgradable.
.RE
.P
.B
OUTPUT
.RS
.B
OUTPUT
is the directory where the package, source and working directories
are created,
.I
/tmp
by default.
.B
sboinstall
recognizes user-supplied values. Please note that packages are saved in the directory
specified by
.B
PKG_DIR
if set.
.RE
.P
.B
PKGTYPE
.RS
The
.B
PKGTYPE
variable sets the compression method for the resulting package.
.B
makepkg(1)
supports a number of values, including
.B
tgz
(the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
default),
.B
tar.gz\fR\
\&,
.B
txz\fR\
\&,
.B
tar.xz\fR\
\&,
.B
tbz\fR\
\&,
.B
tar.bz2\fR\
\&,
.B
tlz\fR\
\&,
.B
tar.lz
and
.B
tar.lzma\fR\
\&. Any of these can be used without issue.
.RE
.P
.B
TAG
.RS
.B
TAG
sets the tag at the end of the package name,
.B
_SBo
by default. Its use is not advisable with
.B
sboinstall\fR\
\&. If a different tag is supplied,
.B
sbocheck(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)
will fail to report upgrades for the installed package.
.RE
.P
.B
TMP
.RS
.B
TMP
is
.B
/tmp/SBo\fR\
\&, the directory where the source and working directories are created.
.B
sboinstall
recognizes user-supplied values. Please note that packages are saved in the directory
specified by
.B
PKG_DIR
if set.
.RE
.P
.B
VERSION
.RS
.B
VERSION
sets the version number. If changed at the command line, the SlackBuild is highly
unlikely to build successfully. To build a different version, consider using the
directory specified in
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES\fR\
\&.
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sboinstall
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations were succesful.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occured, such as specifying invalid options.
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
3:  a SlackBuild exited non-zero.
.RE
.RS
4:  unable to md5sum verify the source file(s).
.RE
.RS
5:  unable to download the source file(s).
.RE
.RS
6:  unable to obtain a required file handle.
.RE
.RS
7:  unable to get required info from the
.I
info
file.
.RE
.RS
8:  unable to unset the exec-on-close bit on a temporary file.
.RE
.RS
9:  multilib has not been set up (where required).
.RE
.RS
10:
.B
convertpkg-compat32
exited non-zero.
.RE
.RS
11: the
.B
convertpkg-compat32
script cannot be found (where required).
.RE
.RS
12: interrupt signal received.
.RE
.RS
13: circular dependencies detected.
.RE
.RS
14: in
.B
batch\fR\
\&,
.B
nointeractive
or
.B
dry-run\fR\
\&, required user or group missing.
.RE
.RS
15: GPG verification failed.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5), gpg(1), setarch(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
