.TH sboremove 1 "Sweetmorn, Discord 53, 3192 YOLD" "sbotools 4.1.4" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sboremove
- remove packages installed from SlackBuilds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sboremove [-h|-v]
.P
sboremove [-apq] [--no-descriptions] sbo_name (sbo_name)
.P
sboremove [--color|--nocolor] [--wrap|--nowrap] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sboremove
removes packages installed from SlackBuilds, along with
any unneeded dependencies. Dependency information is
pulled recursively from
.I
info
files and honors the contents of
.B
sbotools.hints(5)\fR\
\&; any dependencies
required by no other installed SlackBuilds are eligible
for removal as well.
.B
sboremove
does not handle blacklisted scripts.
.P
If
.B
sboremove
is called with the
.B
--alwaysask
flag, all dependencies receive removal prompts, even if they are
required by other installed SlackBuilds. The per-script prompts list
installed reverse dependencies, if any.
.P
.I
compat32
and normal packages can be requested together at the command line.
Call
.B
sboremove
with the
.B
--compat32
flag to specify all command line scripts as
.I
compat32
automatically.
.P
In all cases, this script prompts the user package-by-package in
reverse build order before performing any removal operations. No
option exists to enable
.B
sboremove
to uninstall packages without confirmation prompts,
and there are no plans to add that functionality in the
future.
.P
Root privileges are required to run
.B
sboremove
unless passing
.B
--query\fR\
\&. If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, or if invalid options are specified, the script
exits with a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-a|--alwaysask
.RS
Always ask to remove dependencies, even if they are
required by other packages installed to the system.
.RE
.P
.B
--no-descriptions
.RS
Do not show descriptions in query or interactive output.
.RE
.P
.B
-p|--compat32
.RS
Interpret all scripts passed to
.B
sboremove
at the command line as
.I
compat32\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-q|--query
.RS
Show the prospective removal prompt order and exit.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.P
.B
--wrap
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
word wrapping (default).
.RE
.P
.B
--nowrap
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
word wrapping.
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sboremove
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations completed successfully.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occurred, such as running
.B
sboremove
without a list of packages.
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
13: circular dependencies detected.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbocutleaves(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sbotool(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Jacob Pipkin <jacob.pipkin@icloud.com>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
