.TH sbosnap 1 "Prickle-Prickle, The Aftermath 47, 3190 YOLD" "sbotools 3.1" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbosnap
-
.B
slackbuilds.org
tree fetch and update command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sbosnap [-h|-v]
.P
sbosnap (fetch|update)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sbosnap
is used to download and update a local copy of the
.B
slackbuilds.org
tree. Note that
.B
sbocheck(1)
also updates the tree and checks for updated and removed
SlackBuilds.
.B
rsync
is used for rsync repositories, and
.B
git
is used for git repositories.
.B
sbotools
defaults to git unless
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&.
.P
.B
sbosnap
will verify the local repository with
.B
gpg
if
.B
GPG_VERIFY
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
Only rsync repositories can be verified on Slackware 14.0 and Slackware 14.1.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
.P
.B
fetch
.RS
Download a local copy of the
.I
slackbuilds.org
tree. The copy will be downloaded to the path in the
.B
SBO_HOME
setting (see
.B
sboconfig(1)
and
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
),
.I
/usr/sbo
by default.
.RE
.P
.B
update
.RS
Update a previously fetched copy of the
.B
slackbuilds.org
tree.
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sbosnap
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0: all operations completed successfully.
.RE
.RS
1: a usage error occurred, such as running sbosnap with no command.
.RE
.RS
5: error downloading from the repository.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
