.TH sbotools 1 "Pungenday, Discord 5, 3191 YOLD - Mojoday" "sbotools 3.5_RC" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbotools
- Perl scripts providing a ports-like interface to
.B
SlackBuilds.org
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sbotools
is a set of Perl scripts that collectively provide a ports-like interface to
.B
SlackBuilds.org\fR\
\&. Each tool is documented in its own man page.
.P
.B
sbocheck(1)
.RS
Fetch the latest version of the upstream SlackBuilds repository. Check
for version updates, build number changes and out-of-tree installed
SlackBuilds with the
.I
_SBo
tag.
.RE
.P
.B
sboclean(1)
.RS
Remove cruft by cleaning source archives, build directories and saved build options.
.RE
.P
.B
sboconfig(1)
.RS
A command line interface for changing
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
sbofind(1)
.RS
Search the local copy of the repository for SlackBuilds. Optionally, display
build queues,
.I
README
and
.I
info
files and installed reverse dependencies.
.RE
.P
.B
sbohints(1)
.RS
Query and modify script specific hints: blacklist, optional dependencies and reverse
dependency rebuilds.
.RE
.P
.B
sboinstall(1)
.RS
Install SlackBuilds with their dependencies. Handle compat32 packages
and create or build from templates.
.RE
.P
.B
sboremove(1)
.RS
Interactively remove installed SlackBuilds along with any unused dependencies.
.RE
.P
.B
sboupgrade(1)
.RS
Upgrade previously-installed SlackBuilds.
.RE

By default,
.B
sboinstall(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)
give prompts before adding items to the build queue. These scripts have a
.B
--batch
flag available for non-interactive building with dependency resolution. Because
.B
--batch
can install new dependencies without prompting, using it in a production environment
without a well-maintained
.I
/etc/sbotools.hints
file, or with unfamiliar scripts, can potentially lead to unwanted results. Consider
passing
.B
--dry-run
first, which prints the build queue with other information and exits.

For details about all configuration options in
.I
sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, see
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&.
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
documents the
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.hints
file, which passes hints to
.B
sboinstall(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)\fR\
\&: blacklist, optional dependencies and automatic reverse dependency rebuilds.
.SH STARTUP
When using
.B
sbotools
for the first time, a copy of the SlackBuilds repository
must be fetched with
.B
sbocheck(1)\fR\
\&:
.RS

sbocheck


.RE
The local repository is saved to
.I
/usr/sbo/repo\fR\
\&.
To use an alternative location, give an absolute file path to the
.B
SBO_HOME
setting with
.B
sboconfig(1)
or by editing
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&.

The default mirror depends on the running version of Slackware. Stable
releases beyond Slackware 14.1 use the appropriate branch on
.UR https://gitlab.com/SlackBuilds.org/slackbuilds/
.UE
and -current uses
.UR https://github.com/Ponce/slackbuilds/
.UE
with the
.B
current
branch. Slackware 14.0 and 14.1 have default rsync mirrors.

To use an rsync mirror with <rsync://slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds/*/>
as the default, set
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT
to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&. The
.B
REPO
setting overrides the default mirror with a git or rsync URL, and
.B
GIT_BRANCH
sets a custom git branch.

To update the local repository, run
.B
sbocheck(1)\fR\
\&. This generates a report with potential version upgrades, SlackBuilds
with incremented build numbers and out-of-tree SlackBuilds installed with
the
.I
_SBo
tag.

The simplest way to upgrade all eligible SlackBuilds is to run
.RS

sboupgrade --all


.RE
Build number increments are ignored if
.B
BUILD_IGNORE
is set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
.P
Using
.B
sboconfig(1)
without flags enters an interactive settings menu. Each option is explained
and no changes are made without verification. Using flags is faster, but
new users may find this a helpful resource.
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
