.TH sboupgrade 1 "Setting Orange, Bureaucracy 21, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.8.1" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sboupgrade
- install or upgrade SlackBuilds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
sboupgrade [-h|-v]
.P
sboupgrade [-SXcbde TRUE|FALSE] [-j #|FALSE] [-Lk /path|FALSE] \\
           [-fiopqrz] [--batch|--dry-run] --all|sbo_name (sbo_name)
.P
sboupgrade [--color|--nocolor] [--wrap|--nowrap] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B
sboupgrade
is used to upgrade SlackBuilds. If the
.B
--nointeractive
flag is not present,
.B
sboupgrade
pulls the list of requirements from the
.I
info
file for any specified SlackBuild. This is a recursive
operation over all dependencies.
.B
sboupgrade
offers to install any non-installed dependencies in
the build queue, taking the hints in
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
into account. The script exits with an error message if circular
dependencies are detected.
.P
.I
README
files are parsed for
.B
groupadd
and
.B
useradd
commands, and
.B
sboupgrade
offers to run them prior to building if any of the required users
or groups do not exist. If the
.I
README
is judged to document options in
.I
KEY=VALUE
form, a prompt for setting options appears. Any
build options used are saved to
.I
/var/log/sbotools
when the SlackBuild runs.
.P
.I
compat32
packages share saved build options with the corresponding
base script. Please note that saved build options are not
displayed when
.B
CLASSIC
is set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&. When running with
.B
--nointeractive
or
.B
--batch
\&, saved build options are used automatically unless
.B
--norecall
is passed as well. If
.B
STRICT_UPGRADES
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, upgrades are only performed for non-override packages
if the version or build number is apparently higher. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
or
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&.
.P
.B
sboupgrade
attempts to download the sources from the
.I
DOWNLOAD
or
.I
DOWNLOAD_x86_64
variables in the
.I
info
file. If
either the download or the md5sum check fails, a new
download is attempted from
.UR ftp://slackware.uk/sbosrcarch/
.UE
as a fallback measure. The
.B
--all
flag may be passed to upgrade all eligible SlackBuilds
simultaneously.
.P
.B
sboupgrade
verifies the local repository with
.B
gpg(1)
if
.B
GPG_VERIFY
is
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
Only rsync repositories can be verified on Slackware 14.0 and Slackware 14.1.
.P
Package upgrades occasionally cause breakage due to
.B
*.so
version differences. To check for missing first-order shared object (solib) dependencies
that may have resulted from running
.B
sboupgrade\fR\
\&, use
.B
--so-check TRUE\fR\
\&. Each affected package is logged to
.I
/var/log/sboupgrade-solibs.log
with a list of missing shared objects and the files that have first-order dependencies on
them. This can be done automatically after every
.B
sboupgrade
run by setting
.B
SO_CHECK
to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&.
.P
Root privileges are required to run
.B
sboupgrade
unless passing
.B
--dry-run\fR\
\&. If an invalid configuration is detected in
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf\fR\
\&, or if invalid options are specified, the script
exits with a diagnostic message.
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B
-b|--build-ignore (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not perform upgrades unless the
version number differs. By default, upgrades
also occur when the build number differs.
This setting and
.B
--force
are not the same;
.B
--force
initiates upgrades even if the
build number is unchanged. This overrides the
.B
BUILD_IGNORE
setting in
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-c|--noclean (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not clean working directories after building.
These are the build and
.I
package-(sbo)
directories under
.I
/tmp/SBo
(or
.I
$TMP\fR\
). Cleaning these directories can be set as default
via the
.B
sboconfig(1)
command. See also
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-D|--dry-run
.RS
Non-interactively print the prospective build queue and exit.
.B
--dry-run
reports SlackBuilds in the queue with
.I
%README%
in
.I
REQUIRES\fR\
\&, saved build options to be used and
.B
useradd
or
.B
groupadd
commands to be run. This makes
.B
--batch
considerably safer for everyday use.
.B
--dry-run
can be used without root privileges.
.RE
.P
.B
-d|--distclean (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, then remove the source archives after building. They
are retained in md5sum-designated directories under
.I
SBO_HOME/distfiles
by default. The package archive (in
.I
/tmp
by default) is also removed. This option can be set as default via the
.B
sboconfig(1)
command. See also
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-e|--etc-profile
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, source any executable scripts in
.I
/etc/profile.d
named
.I
*.sh
before running each SlackBuild in the build queue.
This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-f|--force
.RS
Force an upgrade, even if the installed version and
build number are equal to the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
version.
.RE
.P
.B
-i|--noinstall
.RS
Do not install the package at the end of the build process.
It is left in
.I
/tmp
(or
.I
$OUTPUT\fR\
) if
.B
DISTCLEAN
is
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&. Packages are retained in
.B
PKG_DIR
if so defined regardless of
.B
DISTCLEAN\fR\
\&. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
and
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. Incompatible with
.B
--reverse-rebuild\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-j|--jobs (FALSE|#)
.RS
If numerical, pass to the
.B
-j
argument when a SlackBuild invoking
.B
make
is run.
.RE
.P
.B
-k|--pkg-dir (FALSE|/path)
.RS
If an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, save built packages here, overriding the value of the
.B
PKG_DIR
setting.
.RE
.P
.B
-L|--log-dir (FALSE|/path)
.RS
If an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, save build logs here, overriding the value of the
.B
LOG_DIR
setting. Logs are saved with the name of the script
and a timestamp.
.RE
.P
.B
-o|--norecall
.RS
Do not reuse saved build options if running with
.B
--nointeractive
or
.B
--batch\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-p|--compat32
.RS
Create
.I
compat32
packages for each item in the queue on multilib x86_64 systems.
Any requested 64-bit only scripts are not queued, and 32-bit
only scripts are built as-is. To request both
.I
compat32
and normal scripts, run
.B
sboupgrade
without
.B
--compat32
and append
.I
-compat32
to the script name, e.g.
.I
libmodplug-compat32\fR\
\&.
.P
This requires the
.B
compat32-tools
package by Eric Hameleers. Please note that this operation
is not necessarily foolproof, and is unsupported by anyone
in principle.
.B
--compat32
can be combined with
.B
--noinstall
and
.B
--distclean FALSE
so that the contents of the package can be inspected prior
to installation. GitHub Issues are welcome in case of unexpected failure.

.B
sboinstall
will not attempt
.I
compat32
builds for Perl-based or
.I
noarch
scripts. Incompatible with
.B
--all\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-q|--reverse-rebuild
.RS
Rebuild the reverse dependency queue after upgrading. Please note that building
against some packages, including
.B
google-go-lang\fR\
\&, does not work without first sourcing a version-specific profile script.
.B
--reverse-rebuild
fails in such cases. Incompatible with
.B
--noinstall\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-r|--nointeractive
.RS
Bypass all user prompts and all dependency resolution for
the requested SlackBuilds except in case of reverse dependency rebuilds,
.B
--reverse-rebuild
or (extraneously)
.B
--batch\fR\
\&. Saved build options will be reused automatically unless
.B
--norecall
is passed as well. Unless it is obvious that dependency resolution and
new build options are not required, using this option is not recommended.

Overridden by
.B
--batch\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-S|--strict-upgrades (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, only perform upgrades if the incoming version or build number is higher. This
has no effect scripts in the local overrides directory. This option can be set as
default via
.B
sboconfig(1)\fR\
\&. See also
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. This option overrides the default.
.RE
.P
.B
-X|--so-check (FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, check for missing first-order shared object dependencies after running
.B
sboupgrade\fR\
\&. Please note that only those shared objects provided by outgoing packages are reflected
in the results. For a full shared object check, see
.B
sbocheck(1)\fR\
\&. Overrides the
.B
SO_CHECK
setting.
.RE
.P
.B
-z|--force-reqs
.RS
In the same vein as
.B
--force\fR\
\&, upgrade the SlackBuild and its dependencies, even if upgrades are not required.

Incompatible with
.B
--nointeractive\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--all
.RS
Upgrade all installed SlackBuilds that are eligible for
upgrades, including
.I
compat32
packages. This takes the
.B
BUILD_IGNORE
setting into account. See
.B
sboconfig(1)
and
.B
sbotools.conf(5)\fR\
\&. Incompatible with
.B
--compat32\fR\
\&. Please note that SlackBuilds installed from a
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES
directory are upgraded only if the version or build number
from this directory varies.
.RE
.P
.B
--batch
.RS
Bypass all user prompts for the requested SlackBuilds, but perform dependency
resolution, even if
.B
--reverse-rebuild
is not passed. Any saved build options are used again unless
.B
--norecall
is passed as well. If a script calls for
.B
useradd
or
.B
groupadd\fR\
\&,
.B
sboupgrade
exits with an informative message if any specified user or group does not
exist.

This flag is not to be taken lightly, as it can cause new dependencies
to be installed without prompting. Usage in a production environment
without a well-maintained
.B
sbotools.hints(5)
file or with unfamiliar scripts is not advised. For safer usage, consider
running
.B
sboupgrade
with
.B
--dry-run
first, which prints the
.B
--batch
build queue and exits, to verify the upcoming operation.

Overrides
.B
--nointeractive\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
-h|--help
.RS
Show help information.
.RE
.P
.B
-v|--version
.RS
Show version information.
.RE
.P
.B
--color
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
color output. See also
.B
sbotools.colors(5)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
--nocolor
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
color output.
.RE
.P
.B
--wrap
.RS
Turn on
.B
sbotools
word wrapping (default).
.RE
.P
.B
--nowrap
.RS
Turn off
.B
sbotools
word wrapping.
.RE
.SH VARIABLES
.P
Beyond the options contained in
.I
README
files, certain variables are relevant to nearly all SlackBuilds,
and can be used when running
.B
sboupgrade\fR\
\&.
.P
.B
ARCH
.RS
.B
ARCH
passes a CPU architecture to the build process, and is mostly used
to build
.B
i?86
packages on
.B
x86_64
machines and
.I
compat32
packages.
.B
sboupgrade
does not require
.B
ARCH
to build
.I
compat32
packages, instead using
.B
setarch(1)\fR\
\&. This process is not necessarily bug-free;
please do not hesitate to report
.I
compat32
issues.
.RE
.P
.B
BUILD
.RS
.B
BUILD
sets the build number. Although it can be supplied at the command line
without compromising the build, please note that unless
.B
CLASSIC
or
.B
BUILD_IGNORE
are set,
.B
sbocheck(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade
will report the installed package as upgradable.
.RE
.P
.B
OUTPUT
.RS
.B
OUTPUT
is the directory where the package, source and working directories
are created,
.I
/tmp
by default.
.B
sboupgrade
recognizes user-supplied values. Please note that packages are saved in the directory
specified by
.B
PKG_DIR
if set.
.RE
.P
.B
PKGTYPE
.RS
The
.B
PKGTYPE
variable sets the compression method for the resulting package.
.B
makepkg(1)
supports a number of values, including
.B
tgz
(the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
default),
.B
tar.gz\fR\
\&,
.B
txz\fR\
\&,
.B
tar.xz\fR\
\&,
.B
tbz\fR\
\&,
.B
tar.bz2\fR\
\&,
.B
tlz\fR\
\&,
.B
tar.lz
and
.B
tar.lzma\fR\
\&. Any of these can be used without issue.
.RE
.P
.B
TAG
.RS
.B
TAG
sets the tag at the end of the package name,
.B
_SBo
by default. Its use is not advisable with
.B
sboupgrade\fR\
\&. If a different tag is supplied,
.B
sbocheck(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade
will fail to report upgrades for the installed package.
.RE
.P
.B
TMP
.RS
.B
TMP
is
.B
/tmp/SBo\fR\
\&, the directory where the source and working directories are created.
.B
sboupgrade
recognizes user-supplied values. Please note that packages are saved in the directory
specified by
.B
PKG_DIR
if set.
.RE
.P
.B
VERSION
.RS
.B
VERSION
sets the version number. If changed at the command line, the SlackBuild is highly
unlikely to build successfully. To build a different version, consider using the
directory specified in
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES\fR\
\&.
.RE
.SH EXIT CODES
.P
.B
sboupgrade
can exit with the following codes:
.RS

0:  all operations were succesful.
.RE
.RS
1:  a usage error occured, such as specifying invalid options.
.RE
.RS
2:  a script or module error occurred.
.RE
.RS
3:  a SlackBuild exited non-zero.
.RE
.RS
4:  unable to md5sum verify the source file(s).
.RE
.RS
5:  unable to download the source file(s).
.RE
.RS
6:  unable to obtain a required file handle.
.RE
.RS
7:  unable to get required info from the
.I
info
file.
.RE
.RS
8:  unable to unset the exec-on-close bit on a temporary file.
.RE
.RS
9:  multilib has not been set up (where required).
.RE
.RS
10:
.B
convertpkg-compat32
exited non-zero.
.RE
.RS
11: the
.B
convertpkg-compat32
script cannot be found (where required).
.RE
.RS
12: interrupt signal received.
.RE
.RS
13: circular dependencies detected.
.RE
.RS
14: in
.B
batch\fR\
\&,
.B
nointeractive
or
.B
dry-run\fR\
\&, required user or group missing.
.RE
.RS
15: GPG verification failed.
.RE
.RS
16: reading keyboard input failed.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.P
None known. If found, Issues and Pull Requests to
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/sbotools/
.UE
are always welcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sbotool(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5), gpg(1), setarch(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
