.TH sbotools.hints 5 "Setting Orange, Confusion 39, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.7" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbotools.hints
- script-specific hints for
.B
sbotools
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.hints
file is used to give sbotools hints about individual scripts. Three kinds of hints
are recognized:
.RS

\[bu] blacklist

\[bu] optional reverse dependencies

\[bu] automatic reverse dependency rebuilds

.RE
Please note that all requests apply equally
to the
.I
compat32
versions of the scripts; specific requests for
.I
compat32
scripts are unsupported.
.P
If a script is blacklisted, it can neither be included in build queues nor
removed by
.B
sboremove(1)\fR\
\&. To blacklist a script, place it on its own line with no whitespace, prepending
an exclamation mark:
.RS

!javacc


.RE
Blacklist entries supersede optional dependency requests.
.P
To ask
.B
sboupgrade(1)
to rebuild a script's reverse dependencies upon upgrade or reinstall, place the name
of the script on its own line with no whitespace, prepending a tilde:
.RS

~libmodplug


.RE
.P
Many scripts on
.B
SlackBuilds.org
have optional dependencies. To make
.B
sbotools
recognize one or more optional dependencies for a script, make a space-delineated
list of optional dependencies and place the name of the script at the end:
.RS

libcacard spice libiscsi qemu


.RE
Commented lines are ignored. There should not be whitespace to the left of any
entry.
.P
.B
sbohints(1)
can also be used to interface with this file.
To use a configuration directory other than
.I
/etc/sbotools\fR\
\&, export an environment variable
.B
SBOTOOLS_CONF_DIR
with an absolute path.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.conf(5)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
