.TH sbotools.colors 5 "Sweetmorn, Confusion 50, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.7" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbotools.colors
- customize output colors for
.B
sbotools
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.colors
file allows for customizing
.B
sbotools
output colors. To enable
.B
sbotools
color output, set
.B
COLOR
to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&; see
.B
sbotools.conf(5)
or
.B
sboconfig(1)
for details. Three color categories are available.
.B
color_notice
is
.B
cyan
by default, and covers neutral prompts and selected notifications.
.B
color_lesser
is default
.B
bold\fR\
\&, and is for lesser warnings.
.B
color_warn
marks errors and potentially serious warnings, and defaults to
.B
red bold\fR\
\&.
.P
Color specifications follow a
.I
KEY=VALUE
pattern; spaces are allowed, quotation marks are optional and commented lines
are ignored. If a color is specified more than once, the last valid specification
applies.
.P
All colors must be specified with valid ANSI designations. For more information,
see the
.B
Function Interface
section of
.B
Term::ANSIColor(3)\fR\
\&. If a color category has an invalid specification, it uses the default color
instead. Examples of valid specifications include
.B
yellow reverse
and
.B
bright_black\fR\
\&.
.B
rRRRgGGGbBBB
specifications are also possible for true color output. Please note that not all
terminal emulators can handle all specifications listed in
.B
Term::ANSIColor(3)\fR\
\&.
.P
To disable coloration for any color category, set it to
.B
reset\fR\
\&.
.P
To use a configuration directory other than
.I
/etc/sbotools\fR\
\&, export an environment variable
.B
SBOTOOLS_CONF_DIR
with an absolute path.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.conf(5), sbotools.hints(5), Term::ANSIColor(3)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
