.TH sbotools.conf 5 "Setting Orange, Bureaucracy 21, 3191 YOLD" "sbotools 3.8.1" sbotools
.SH NAME
.P
.B
sbotools.conf
- configuration file for
.B
sbotools
commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.conf
contains
.I
KEY=VALUE
configuration parameters, and is read by all
.B
sbotools
commands.
.P
If an invalid configuration is detected (or requested with
.B
sboconfig(1)\fR\
), the script exits with a diagnostic message.
.P
To quickly restore all default settings, run
.RS

sboconfig --reset


.RE
To use a configuration directory other than
.I
/etc/sbotools\fR\
\&, export an environment variable
.B
SBOTOOLS_CONF_DIR
with an absolute path.
.P
.I
/root\fR\
\&,
.I
/home\fR\
\&,
.I
/
and possible top-level directories under
.I
/home
are not permitted as directory settings.
.P
The current configuration keys are as follows:
.P
.B
CLASSIC=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, automatically enable
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT
and
.B
BUILD_IGNORE\fR\
\&, and disable
.B
COLOR
(overriding the contents of this file). Build increment and out-of-tree
SlackBuild checks by
.B
sbocheck(1)
are disabled, and previously-used build options are not displayed.
This provides a more traditional
.B
sbotools
look and feel for those who want it.
.RE
.P
.B
CPAN_IGNORE=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, install scripts even if they are already installed from the CPAN.
.RE
.P
.B
DISTCLEAN=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, remove the package and source archives after building. Source
archives are otherwise retained in md5sum-designated directories under
.I
/usr/sbo/distfiles
(with
.I
SBO_HOME=/usr/sbo\fR\
\&)
by default. If
.B
PKG_DIR
is set, package archives are saved there regardless of
.B
DISTCLEAN\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
GPG_VERIFY=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, use
.B
gpg(1)
to verify the contents of the local repository (and, if applicable,
.I
/etc/sbotools/obsolete\fR\
) when running
.B
sbocheck(1)\fR\
\&,
.B
sboinstall(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)\fR\
\&. Missing public keys are detected, and a download from
.UR keyserver.ubuntu.com
.UE
on port 80 is offered if available.
Only rsync repositories can be verified on Slackware 14.0 and Slackware 14.1.
.RE
.P
.B
JOBS=(FALSE|#)
.RS
If
.B
numerical\fR\
\&, pass to the
.B
-j
argument when a SlackBuild invoking
.B
make
is run.
.RE
.P
.B
NOCLEAN=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not clean working directories after building.
These are the build and
.I
package-(sbo)
directories under
.I
/tmp/SBo
(or
.I
$TMP\fR\
).
.RE
.P
.B
COLOR=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, enable
.B
sbotools
color output. To customize color output, edit the
.I
/etc/sbotools/sbotools.colors
file directly. See
.B
sbotools.colors(5)
for more details.
.RE
.P
.B
GIT_BRANCH=(FALSE|branch_name)
.RS
If
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&, use the default git branch for the Slackware
version, if any. If
.B
branch_name\fR\
\&, attempt to change
branches to
.B
branch_name
when using
.B
sbocheck(1)
with an upstream git repository.
.RE
.P
.B
BUILD_IGNORE=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not perform upgrades unless the
version number differs. By default, upgrades
also occur when the build number differs.
.RE
.P
.B
ETC_PROFILE=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
.B
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, source any executable scripts in
.I
/etc/profile.d
named
.I
*.sh
before running each SlackBuild in the build queue.
.RE
.P
.B
LOG_DIR=(FALSE|/path)
.RS
If set to an
.B
absolute path\fR\
\&, save build logs here. Logs are saved with the name of the script
and a timestamp. Please note that because
.B
STDERR
must be redirected for a complete log, colors and formatting may differ
when running some SlackBuilds unless
.B
LOG_DIR
is
.B
FALSE\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
OBSOLETE_CHECK=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, download an updated copy of the obsolete script list to
.I
/etc/sbotools/obsolete
from the
.B
sbotools
home page at
.UR https://pghvlaans.github.io/sbotools
.UE
when running
.B
sbocheck(1)
in Slackware -current.
.RE
.P
.B
PKG_DIR=(FALSE|/path)
.RS
If set to a
.B
path\fR\
\&, packages are stored there after installation. This
overrides the
.B
DISTCLEAN
setting for saved packages.
.RE
.P
.B
SBO_HOME=(/usr/sbo|/path)
.RS
If set to a
.B
path\fR\
\&, this is where the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
tree is stored. The default setting is
.I
/usr/sbo\fR\
\&. The tree must be re-downloaded with
.B
sbocheck(1)
if the
.B
SBO_HOME
setting changes.
.RE
.P
.B
LOCAL_OVERRIDES=(FALSE|/path)
.RS
If set to a
.B
path\fR\
\&, any directory name in the top level under that path matching a
SlackBuild name is used in preference to the
in-tree version. This works even if the SlackBuild
is out-of-tree. Scripts installing packages not marked
with the
.I
_SBo
tag are neither upgradeable with
.B
sboupgrade(1)
nor removable with
.B
sboremove(1)\fR\
\&.
.I
slack-desc\fR\
\&, an
.I
info
file and
a SlackBuild must all be present.
.RE
.P
.B
SLACKWARE_VERSION=(FALSE|#.#)
.RS
If set to a
.B
version number\fR\
\&, use the
.B
SlackBuilds.org
repository for that version of Slackware rather than
the one specified in
.I
/etc/slackware-version\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
SO_CHECK=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, check for missing first-order shared object (solib) dependencies
among
.I
_SBo
packages when running
.B
sbocheck(1)
and
.B
sboupgrade(1)\fR\
\&.
.RE
.P
.B
REPO=(FALSE|url|/path)
.RS
If set to a git or rsync
.B
URL\fR\
\&, use that repository instead of the
.B
sbotools
default for your
.B
SLACKWARE_VERSION\fR\
\&. The default repositories are under
.UR rsync://slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds
.UE
if
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT
is
.B
TRUE
and for Slackware versions prior to 14.2, and
.UR https://gitlab.com/SlackBuilds.org
.UE
otherwise. The repository must be laid out in the same
manner as one found at
.UR https://git.slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds
.UE
such that SlackBuild directories are under the
category directories.
.RE
.P
.B
RSYNC_DEFAULT=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, use rsync default mirrors except for Slackware -current.
.RE
.P
.B
STRICT_UPGRADES=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, upgrades are only attempted if the incoming
version or build number is greater. This has no
effect on scripts in the local overrides directory.
.RE
.P
.B
NOWRAP=(FALSE|TRUE)
.RS
If set to
.B
TRUE\fR\
\&, do not wrap
.B
sbotools
output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
sbocheck(1), sboclean(1), sboconfig(1), sbofind(1), sbohints(1), sboinstall(1), sboremove(1), sboupgrade(1), sbotools.colors(5), sbotools.hints(5), gpg(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.P
Jacob Pipkin <j@dawnrazor.net>
.P
Luke Williams <xocel@iquidus.org>
.P
Andreas Guldstrand <andreas.guldstrand@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINER
.P
K. Eugene Carlson <kvngncrlsn@gmail.com>
